お母さん	おかあさん	mother
が	but	however	still	and	indicates possessive (esp. in literary expressions)	indicates sentence subject (occasionally object)	festal song (genre of the Shi Jing)	elegance	grace	picture	drawing	painting	sketch	congratulation	moth	atman	the self	the ego	obstinacy	but	however	still	and	indicates possessive (esp. in literary expressions)	indicates sentence subject (occasionally object)	festal song (genre of the Shi Jing)	elegance	grace	picture	drawing	painting	sketch	congratulation	moth	atman	the self	the ego	obstinacy
し	China	city	religious leader	teacher	master	one's mentor	five-battalion brigade comprising 2500 men (Zhou-dynasty Chinese army)	specialist	official	civil service	(at the end of a phrase) notes one (of several) reasons	office (government department beneath a bureau under the ritsuryo system)	police and judicial chief (Heian and Kamakura periods)	messenger	klesha (polluting thoughts such as greed, hatred and delusion, which result in suffering)	independent word	ci (form of Chinese poetry)	words	writing	lyrics	visual	vision	history	zhi (large bowl-shaped ancient Chinese cup with two handles)	clan	Mr	Mrs	Ms	Miss	counter for people	he	him	honorific suffix used after the name of a woman of equal or higher status	Chinese ""Turtle Beak"" constellation (one of the 28 mansions)	-er (i.e. a man who spends all his time doing...)	child (esp. a boy)	viscount	master (founder of a school of thought, esp. Confucius)	you (of one's equals)	philosophy (branch of Chinese literature)	non-Confucian Hundred Schools of Thought writings	to ...	private affairs	personal matter	that	you	oneself	themself	counter for long, thin things (i.e. swords)	death	decease	death penalty (by strangulation or decapitation)	calling card	kanji ""corpse"" radical	corpse	thread	0.001	one ten-thousandth	poem	verse of poetry	printing block	catalpa bow	Japanese mallotus (Mallotus japonicus)	yellow catalpa (Catalpa ovata)	catalpa medium	Japanese cherry birch (Betula grossa)	four	10^24	septillion	person (in a certain profession, esp. licensed)	member	samurai	man (esp. one who is well-respected)	Japanese dock (plant) (Rumex japonicus)	newspaper	magazine
た	multi-	other (esp. people and abstract matters)	who	distance between outstretched thumb and middle finger (approx. 18 cm)	rice field	indicate past completed or action	indicates light imperative
だきょう	compromise	giving in
で	start	beginning	amount (comprising something)	amount of time or effort required to do something	origins	background	person (or item) originating from ...	graduate of ...	native of ...	member of ... (lineage)	architectural member that projects outward	coming out	going out	outflow	efflux	rising (of the sun or moon)	highest point of the stern of a ship	attending (work)	appearing (on stage)	one's turn to go on	indicates certainty, emphasis, etc.	indicates location of action	at	in	indicates time of action	indicates means of action	cause of effect	by	indicates continuing action	and then	so
と	Chinese ""Dipper"" constellation (one of the 28 mansions)	square bearing block (at the top of a pillar)	to (measure of volume, approx. 18 litres)	promoted pawn	particle used for quoting (with speech, thoughts, etc.)	quoting particle	with	and	indicates question (sentence end)	if	when	ten	outside	exterior	open air	other place	party	set	gang	company	person	entrance (to a home)	door (esp. Japanese-style)	narrows	metropolitan	municipal	way	person	Saturday	earth (third of the five elements)	Turkey
ない	dead	not	emphatic suffix	unpossessed	unowned	not had	nonexistent	not being (there)	to not be...	to have not ...	not ...	indicates negation, inexperience, unnecessariness or impossibility	unique	earthquake	inside	within	dead	not	emphatic suffix	unpossessed	unowned	not had	nonexistent	not being (there)	to not be...	to have not ...	not ...	indicates negation, inexperience, unnecessariness or impossibility	unique	earthquake	inside	within
なまる	to speak with an accent	to be corrupted (of word)	to mispronounce	to hide	to be hidden	to conceal oneself	to disappear	to become blunt	to grow dull	to become less capable	to weaken	to falter
に	Indonesia	bhikkhuni (fully ordained Buddhist nun)	load	baggage	cargo	freight	goods	burden	responsibility	soil (esp. reddish soil)	takes after (his mother)	by	from	to (direction, state)	toward	into	as (i.e. in the role of)	because of (reason)	for	with	for (purpose)	and	in addition to	per	in	for	a (e.g. ""once a month"")	at (place, time)	in	on	during	if	although	red earth (i.e. containing cinnabar or minium)	vermilion	simmered with	cooked with	boiling	boiled dish	two	Indonesia	bhikkhuni (fully ordained Buddhist nun)	load	baggage	cargo	freight	goods	burden	responsibility	soil (esp. reddish soil)	takes after (his mother)	by	from	to (direction, state)	toward	into	as (i.e. in the role of)	because of (reason)	for	with	for (purpose)	and	in addition to	per	in	for	a (e.g. ""once a month"")	at (place, time)	in	on	during	if	although	red earth (i.e. containing cinnabar or minium)	vermilion	simmered with	cooked with	boiling	boiled dish	two	Indonesia	bhikkhuni (fully ordained Buddhist nun)	load	baggage	cargo	freight	goods	burden	responsibility	soil (esp. reddish soil)	takes after (his mother)	by	from	to (direction, state)	toward	into	as (i.e. in the role of)	because of (reason)	for	with	for (purpose)	and	in addition to	per	in	for	a (e.g. ""once a month"")	at (place, time)	in	on	during	if	although	red earth (i.e. containing cinnabar or minium)	vermilion	simmered with	cooked with	boiling	boiled dish	two
の	indicates possessive	(at sentence-end, rising tone) indicates question	nominalizes verbs and adjectives	substitutes for ""ga"" in subordinate phrases	(at sentence-end) indicates emotional emphasis	(at sentence-end, falling tone) indicates a confident conclusion	shaft (of an arrow)	arrow bamboo (Pseudosasa japonica)	unit of measurement for cloth breadth (30-38 cm)	hidden (structural) member	plain	field	lacking a political post	wild	possessive particle	indicates possessive	(at sentence-end, rising tone) indicates question	nominalizes verbs and adjectives	substitutes for ""ga"" in subordinate phrases	(at sentence-end) indicates emotional emphasis	(at sentence-end, falling tone) indicates a confident conclusion	shaft (of an arrow)	arrow bamboo (Pseudosasa japonica)	unit of measurement for cloth breadth (30-38 cm)	hidden (structural) member	plain	field	lacking a political post	wild	possessive particle
は	sigh	what?	huh?	ha!	yes	indeed	well	tooth	large fan-shaped object held by an attendant and used to conceal the face of a noble, etc.	adds emphasis	topic marker particle	indicates contrast with another option (stated or unstated)	edge (of a knife or sword)	(in gagaku or noh) middle section of a song	championship	victory	supremacy (over a nation)	hegemony	domination	leadership	clique	faction	school	leaf
まし	increase	growth	more	increase	extra	better	less objectionable	preferable	monkey (esp. the Japanese macaque, Macaca fuscata)	ape	non-human primate	you	please	used to increase the politeness of a greeting, apology, etc.
を	indicates subject of causative expression	indicates direct object of action	indicates object of desire, like, hate, etc.	indicates point of departure or separation of action	indicates time (period) over which action takes place	indicates an area traversed
アラブ	Arab
エサ	(animal) feed	fodder	pet food	bait	lure	enticement
ジム	gym	gymnasium
ビザ	visa
プレゼント	to give a present or gift	present	gift
プログラム	program	programme
中東	ちゅうとう	Middle East
中立	ちゅうりつ	neutrality
中立	なかだち	break between the light meal and the actual serving of tea (during a formal tea ceremony)
五行	ごぎょう	wu xing (the five elements of traditional Chinese philosophy: wood, fire, earth, metal and water)	five practices of the Bodhisattvas
人事	じんじ	personnel affairs	human affairs	human resources	HR
人事	たにんごと	other people's affairs	somebody else's problem
人事	ひとごと	other people's affairs	somebody else's problem
人脈	じんみゃく	personal connections
体	てい	appearance	air	condition	state	form	appearance	air	condition	state	form	appearance	air	condition	state	form
体	しんてい	build	physique	constitution	corpse	dead body	health	body	torso	trunk	build	physique	constitution	corpse	dead body	health	body	torso	trunk	build	physique	constitution	corpse	dead body	health	body	torso	trunk
体	しんたい	build	physique	constitution	corpse	dead body	health	body	torso	trunk	build	physique	constitution	corpse	dead body	health	body	torso	trunk	build	physique	constitution	corpse	dead body	health	body	torso	trunk
体	しんだい	build	physique	constitution	corpse	dead body	health	body	torso	trunk	build	physique	constitution	corpse	dead body	health	body	torso	trunk	build	physique	constitution	corpse	dead body	health	body	torso	trunk
体	たい	field	counter for humanoid forms (e.g. dolls, statues, corpses, etc.)	substance	identity	reality	shape	form	style	body	physique	posture	typeface	type	field	counter for humanoid forms (e.g. dolls, statues, corpses, etc.)	substance	identity	reality	shape	form	style	body	physique	posture	typeface	type	field	counter for humanoid forms (e.g. dolls, statues, corpses, etc.)	substance	identity	reality	shape	form	style	body	physique	posture	typeface	type
体	からだ	build	physique	constitution	corpse	dead body	health	body	torso	trunk	build	physique	constitution	corpse	dead body	health	body	torso	trunk	build	physique	constitution	corpse	dead body	health	body	torso	trunk
例外	れいがい	exception
兄弟姉妹	きょうだいしまい	brothers and sisters	siblings
共和	きょうわ	republican	cooperative
出産	しゅっさん	production (of goods)	childbirth	(giving) birth	delivery	parturition	confinement
判断	はんだん	divination	judgment	judgement	decision	conclusion	adjudication	judgement
労働	ろうどう	Labour Party	manual labor	manual labour	toil	work
動かす	うごかす	to change	to alter	to deny	to mobilize (e.g. troops)	to mobilise	to deploy	to operate	to set in motion	to get going	to manage (e.g. funds)	to move	to shift	to stir	to budge	to change position	to inspire	to rouse	to move (e.g. feeling)	to influence
医療	いりょう	medical care	medical treatment
国	くに	national government	central government	home (i.e. hometown, home country)	province (of Japan)	country	state	land	earth	region
地区	ちく	district	section	sector
妥協	だきょう	compromise	giving in
工夫	こうふ	labourer	laborer	blue-collar worker
工夫	くふう	dedication to spiritual improvement (esp. through Zen meditation)	scheme	device	scheming	devising	figuring out	coming up with	solving ingeniously
巻き込む	まきこむ	to roll up	to involve	to enfold	to swallow up	to drag into
平常心	へいじょうしん	one's self-possession	one's presence of mind
役割	やくわり	part	assigning (allotment of) parts	role	duties
後悔	こうかい	regret	repentance	remorse
思え	NO_ENTRY_FOUND
恵む	めぐむ	to bless	to show mercy to	to give (money, etc.)
感じる	かんじる	to feel	to sense	to experience
戦略	せんりゃく	strategy	tactics
投票	とうひょう	voting	poll
攻撃	こうげき	attack	strike	offensive	criticism	censure	denunciation	condemnation
方言	ほうげん	dialect
海外	かいがい	foreign	abroad	overseas
無実	むじつ	absence of the fact	insubstantiality	innocence	guiltlessness	innocent	guiltless	false	untrue
無心	むしん	free from obstructive thoughts	to pester someone (for cash, etc.)	innocence	insentient (i.e. plants, inanimate objects, etc.)
無知	むち	ignorance	innocence	stupidity
現実	げんじつ	reality	actuality	hard fact
留学生	りゅうがくせい	overseas student	exchange student
的	てき	-like	typical
的	まと	mark	target
監視	かんし	monitoring	watching	observation	surveillance	guarding	inspection
確か	たしか	sure	certain	positive	definite	reliable	trustworthy	safe	sound	firm	accurate	correct	exact	If I'm not mistaken	If I remember correctly	If I remember rightly
祝い	いわい	congratulation	congratulations	celebration	festival	congratulatory gift
祝い	ゆわい	congratulation	congratulations	celebration	festival	congratulatory gift
精進料理	しょうじんりょうり	vegetarian cuisine originally derived from the dietary restrictions of Buddhist monks
義理	ぎり	in-law	relation by marriage	duty	sense of duty	honor	honour	decency	courtesy	debt of gratitude	social obligation
習慣	しゅうかん	custom	cultural practice	habit
脚本	きゃくほん	script	screenplay	scenario
衰える	おとろえる	to become weak	to decline	to wear	to abate	to decay	to wither	to waste away
語学	ごがく	language study
身近	みぢか	near oneself	close to one	familiar
転々	てんてん	moving from place to place	being passed around repeatedly	rolling about
通う	かよう	to resemble	to circulate (e.g. blood, electricity)	to be communicated (e.g. thought)	to go to (school, work, etc.)	to attend	to commute	to frequent	to go to and from (a place)	to go back and forth between	to run between (e.g. bus, train, etc.)	to ply between
邪念	じゃねん	wicked thought	wicked mind
郷土料理	きょうどりょうり	regional cuisine	local cuisine
関係	かんけい	sexual relations	sexual relationship	related to ...	connected to ...	influence	effect	participation	involvement	concern	relation	relationship	connection
隔離	かくり	isolation	segregation	separation	quarantine
首長	しゅちょう	head (of organization, organisation)	chief
馴染む	なじむ	to become familiar with	to fit in	to adapt oneself	to get used to	to grow accustomed to
